# Publishing an Extension

## Manually Publishing an Extension

Publishing a release into a registry of your choice can be accomplished with the `publish-pkgs` script declared in your extension's `package.json`. This script will build a Docker image for each extension package, as well as a Helm chart that can be used to deploy the images. Given the option, the script can automatically push the built images and chart into a specified registry.

### Prerequisites

You will need [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed on the machine you wish to publish from, and a registry that will house your images.

## Running the Publish Script

___Usage___
```sh
Usage: ./node_modules/@rancher/shell/scripts/extension/publish [<options>] [plugins]
 options:
  -p           Push container images on build
  -f           Force building the chart even if it already exists
  -r <name>    Specify destination container registry for built images
  -o <name>    Specify destination container registry organization for built images
  -i <prefix>  Specify prefix for the built container image (default: 'ui-extension-')
  -c           Build as a container image rather than publishing to Github
  -s <repo>    Specify destination GitHub repository (org/name) - defaults to the git origin
  -b <branch>  Specify destination GitHub branch
```

You can simply run the `publish-pkgs` script with the option `-c` to have images built without specifying the registry or image names. The image names will be generated by the repository organization and the package name (e.g. `my-org/test-pkg:0.1.0`).

```sh
yarn publish-pkgs -c
```

To publish to a specific registry you will need to pass the Registry and Organization arguments:

```sh
yarn publish-pkgs -r <REGISTRY> -o <ORGANIZATION> -c
```

Running any of the commands above will only build your images - in order to publish the images to your registry you will need to either push them manually or you can run the script with the `-p` option. This will automatically push your images to the specified registry.

```sh
yarn publish-pkgs -r <REGISTRY> -o <ORGANIZATION> -p -c
```

## Additional Release Configuration

Depending on your use case, there are multiple options on building and creating releases. When building an extension within a Github repository you have the option of utilizing an action that triggers [prebuilt workflows](https://github.com/rancher/dashboard/tree/master/shell/creators/pkg/files/.github/workflows). When added to your extension the `./github/workflows` directory will contain two files, `build-extension.yml` and `build-container.yml`. These workflows accomplish two seperate build types:

- The `build-extension.yml` workflow builds the Helm charts and necessary assets that are then published to the specified branch (defaults to `gh-pages`).
  - The versioning of these builds is determined by the Extension Package `version` property found in `./pkg/<package-name>/package.json`
- The `build-container.yml` workflow builds and publishes the [Extension Catalog Image](./advanced/air-gapped-environments) (ECI) to the specified registry (defaults to `ghcr.io`), for use with private repositories or air-gapped builds.
  - An ECI contains the Helm charts and assets within the image, and is determined by the main Extension `version` property found in `./package.json`

By default, both of these workflows are triggered by pushing into the `main` branch. This may not be your disired flow, and so you can modify the workflow files to fit your needs.

> Note: For more information on events that trigger workflows, follow the [Github Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows).

### Triggering a Github Workflow on Tagged Release

The workflows create tagged releases whenever a build is published, this is accomplished by the [`helm/chart-releaser-action`](https://github.com/helm/chart-releaser-action). Instead of having the workflows run before a release is tagged, you can modify the workflow files to be triggered by a [tagged release](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows#release). This allows you to push code to the `main` branch and create pre-releases without worrying about the automated builds kicking off.

#### Requirements

When creating a Tagged Release, the tag name ***MUST*** match the proper Extension name depending on the type of build. As it was mentioned above, the Extension Charts (published in the specified branch) and ECI (published in the specified registry) are determined by different versions.

**Proper Tagged Release naming scheme:**
- _**Extension Charts**_: The name ***MUST*** match the Extension Package name (determined by the package directory name) followed by the version.
  - For example: `my-extension-package-0.1.1`
- _**Extension Catalog Image**_: The name ***MUST*** match the main Extension name (determined by the `name` property in `./package.json`) followed by the version
  - For example: `my-extension-0.1.0`

---

#### Workflow Configuration

To configure the workflows you will need to modify two sections, namely the [`on`](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#on) stanza and the `Run build script` steps.

**Adding the Tagged Release event:**
```yaml
on:
  release:
    types: [released]
```

> Note: A `release` event has multiple `types` to specify, `released` will cause the workflow to only be triggered when a release is published and not considered a pre-release. More info can be found in the [Github documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows#release).

**Modify the `yarn publish-pkgs` script**

With a `release` event type configured, you will need to modify the `yarn publish-pkgs` command within the workflow files by appending the option `-t ${{ github.ref_name }}`:

```yaml
  run: yarn publish-pkgs -s "${{ github.repository }}" -b gh-pages -t ${{ github.ref_name }}
```

This will provide the `publish-pkgs` script with the released tag name and ensure only the specified build is accomplished.

#### Extension Chart Workflow Example

An example of modifying the `build-extension.yml` workflow file to build when a tag is released:

```yaml
# .github/workflows/build-extension.yml
name: Build and Release Extension

on:
  release:
    types: [released]
...
jobs:
  build:
    ...
    steps:
      ...

      - name: Run build script
        shell: bash
        id: build_script
        run: |
          yarn publish-pkgs -s "${{ github.repository }}" -b gh-pages -t ${{ github.ref_name }}

```

#### Extension Catalog Image Workflow Example

The same steps apply for the `build-container.yml` workflow file as `${{ github.ref_name }}` will use the commit `ref` name, the release tag in this case, which triggered the action:

```yaml
# .github/workflows/build-container.yml
name: Build and release container to registry

on:
  release:
    types: [released]

env:
  REGISTRY: ghcr.io

jobs:
  build:
    ...
    steps:
      ...

      - name: Build and push UI image
        run: |
          yarn publish-pkgs -cp -r ${{ env.REGISTRY }} -o ${{ github.repository_owner }} -t ${{ github.ref_name }}
```

#### Sequence of Events

Once the modifications have been made to the workflow files, all that is required for a build to be initiated is to create a Release tag with the desired extension to be built. This will then trigger both of the workflows, the `publish-pkgs` script will determine if the provided tag name matches either the main Extension name or one of the Extension packages names.

If the Tagged Release does not match the main Extension name, the ECI build will be canceled. Alternatively, if the Tagged Release name does not match an Extension package name, it will be skipped.
 